# Delivering in an Agile Environment

--------------------------------------------------------------

## Key Concept
1. Team & Project Charter
2. Way to measure results
- Both are very different from traditional methods.  

--------------------------------------------------------------

## Charter the Project and the Team

A typical project using the **Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK)** will initiate with a **Project Charter**.  
In addition, when using **Agile**, cross-functional teams initiate with a **Team Charter**.

**The Team Charter Includes:**
- The project vision or purpose  
- A clear set of working agreements  

**It answers these questions:**
- Why are we doing this project?  
- Who benefits and how?  
- What does “done” mean for the project?  
- How are we going to work together?  

A servant leader may facilitate the chartering process.

--------------------------------------------------------------

## Charter the Project and the Team

A team charter is also a **“social contract”**. It can include:

- Team values, such as sustainable pace and core hours
- Working agreements, such as what “ready” means so the team can take in work, and what **“done”** means so the team can judge completeness consistently, respecting the time-box and WIP limits  
- Ground rules, such as one person talking in a meeting
- Group norms, such as how the team treats meeting times

And other behaviours the team wants to work with or address.

--------------------------------------------------------------

## Agile Teams Measure Results

- Agile favours **value-based measurements** instead of predictive measurements (like earned value management).
- By measuring what is done and replanning at each iteration, there is less room for error and more room to correct course.
- Some iteration-based projects use **burndown** or **burnup** charts to show where the project is going versus where it was planned.
- Many agile teams use **story points** to estimate effort.

--------------------------------------------------------------




